Let's get into SQL.
Now the first thing I wanna say
is that I still sometimes out
of habit still called the SQL.
You can tell that I have a lot
of habits around databases and
I just cannot break free of them.
Like I've been doing this for a decade.
The correct way to say this is SQL,
and My SQL,
but it's SQL server and
you writes SQL for SQL server.
I still call it SQL, because I was around
a bunch of people that called it SQL.
So I apologize, I really mean SQL.
But when I say SQL, usually SQL is
associated with like the Microsoft stack.
Unlike Microsoft SQL server,
so when I say SQL,
if you see hear me say SQL,
I will try and stop myself.
But obviously it was not successful,
records versus documents.
Anyway, just like no SQL is
kind of a dumb marketing term.
So as SQL databases,
when I say SQL databases what I really
mean is really relational databases.
And you also see that sometimes
abbreviated as RD BMS,
which I think is relational
database management system.
I think is what that stands for,
but again,
that means an SQL based database
are a relational database.
It's also important to remember that
not all relational databases use SQL.
And not all non relational
databases don't use SQL.
But again, I'm trying to use the most
common terminology here to hopefully
demystify some of the stuff.
So when you see SQL database,
you can kind of loosely associate or
even strongly associate that with
relational database in your head.
Hopefully that's as clear as
mud because marketing is done.
I don't know why these people
still try and confuse us more, but
let's talk about relational databases.
For the rest of time, I'm gonna try and
use relational databases that's actually
probably the closest thing to what I mean.
So what is a relational database?
The best thing to think about with
relational databases is Excel, right?
Excel or numbers or
some sort of spreadsheet.
That is like the easiest picture,
it's like a table of data.
Notice, that the name of a collection in
a relational database is called a table.
That that is no coincidence.
Yeah, so it's good to think
of this as rows and columns.
In fact, that's those are terms
that I'll use as rows and columns.
One of the things with a relational
database is it has a defined and
very structured schema.
Whereas with if you remember in Mongo,
we were writing to our collection and
we just added the owner field on the fly.
That's very easy to do in MongoDB.
And it's not very easy to do in SQL,
because SQL is like,
you need to tell me about all of these
fields before you can give them to me.
If you try and write something that
doesn't exist, it just won't let you.
So what we would have to do
you actually have to issue
an entire statement called
an alter table statement.
Which you don't wanna do alter
tables are very expensive.
As in like we used to do alter tables.
When I worked at Reddit, it would
literally take down like Reddit for
us to do that.
So we were very cautious to not
alter our tables very much.
So a big thing of up front
is defining your schema.
Here's the secret power of relational
databases is that they're very good at
describing relations, right?
Whereas with MongoDB you don't wanna ever
have like this collection refer to this
collection over here.
That's not a good idea.
With MongoDB one of the things you don't
wanna do is you don't want to have one
collection refer to another
collection in general, right?
That's a very expensive thing for
you to say.
Join these two collections
based on this one field, right?
In general with MongoDB when you're
architecting this type of data.
You want all the like
data to live together and
MongoDB provides you with a lot
of tools to be able to do that.
Now, I was actually talking to my friend
who is the director of MongoDB and
he's like, you can do it it's possible.
And certain In situations,
it makes sense to do that with MongoDB.
But I still hold to the rule
that if you're doing joins,
you're doing MongoDB incorrectly.
With SQL, that's like a core component
of how SQL actually works is
that you wanna have data
that relates to each other.
So you're gonna have multiple
different tables, and
those tables are going
to refer to each other.
The example that we're gonna
do today is we're basically
gonna create a message board.
And with that message board
we're gonna have a table of
boards that are going to
refer to a table of contents.
So table of comments, it's hard to say
that way, a table of comments, right?
And there's gonna be two separate tables
that are going to refer to each other
based on IDs.
And we're gonna do joins and that's a big
power of what SQL databases can do.
So that's why it's called relational
databases is because it's very oriented to
the idea of data relating to each other.
So what is SQL?
Why do I keep referring
to this dumb acronym?
I hate acronyms.
Why do we have this one?
SQL stands for structured query language,
which I had to look up.
It was one of the things I still I never
knew, I just always knew what SQL was.
And it's a powerful query language.
Whereas, in MongoDB,
we were using JSON and
JavaScript to write queries,
to query MongoDB.
SQL is what you're gonna use instead
of JavaScript to query this database.
So it's a very kind of structured query
language that's useful to say out loud.
It's a language that is structured,
that you use to query databases.
So if you use this kind of grammar, you'll
be telling the database, how and when,
to do these kind of queries and
we'll get into that.
Whereas there's not a ton of
document based databases out there.
Like if you're gonna talk about
a document based database, you're gonna
be talking about MongoDB most of the time,
that is definitely not the case for SQL.
With SQL, there's a lot of
different types of databases.
I chose Postgres because I think that's
kind of the accepted I will say accepted.
It is one of the most used databases for
JavaScript developers.
And it has a lot of features that I
think JavaScript developers will find
interesting.
And it's just well used today.
Beyond that it's just my favorite, right?
Like it's the one that
I would choose today,
if I was gonna go write a new application.
Now the elephant in the room that is
pinot intended, but also kind of funny.
The elephant in the room would be
the mascot for Postgres is an elephant.
That's why that's a dumb joke.
The other would be my SQL,
my SQL is the other relational open
source database that gets a ton of usage.
And I actually,
my first job and my second job,
I wrote a lot of things my SQL queries.
It's great, it's scales enormously,
Facebook is famously
based heavily on MySQL.
So it does well.
MySQL is also backed by Oracle.
So obviously they know a thing or two
about databases so it's well supported.
It's very good choice today as well.
Google and Netflix are on two
other very big utilizers of MySQL.
Some people don't want
to be tied to Oracle.
And so
another group of the old core committers
of MySQL formed a new
database called Maria DB.
Maria DB is meant to be a drop
in replacement for MySQL, so
they are largely compatible.
It's just more open source,
it's not tied to a big company.
It's another very well
used database as well.
So those are kind of like the ones
that people mostly think about.
The other one to kind of
just mention is SQL Lite.
This one's a little bit different,
it's meant to be very small.
It actually doesn't even have any
net code or anything like that.
It's generally something you can
drop into like an IOT device.
MyMac is currently running SQLite.
Everyone's Mac is running SQLite it cheap
in a lot of things it's very small,
it's very performant.
It's been to kind of thing generally
not used in web does scenarios.
I would not recommend it for
web development scenarios, but
it is a very simple one to get.
Because keep that in mind.
And then the other one are like the big
corporate players like SQL Server,
Oracle, IBM DB2.
These are kind of like
the big corporate databases.
They're very expensive.
Like typically you're gonna sign like
a very large corporate contract,
use one of these.
I'm not gonna tell you about
them because I never used them.
And I never have used them despite
the fact that like I said,
my father literally worked on DB2.
But they're out there as well.
I'm sure some of your
companies are using them.
There's, I mean,
they're obviously good products.